>> Hey, everybody. Welcome to the stream.
We're kicking off today's Python Bytes.
We'll just jump into it.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is Episode 239,
recorded June 23rd.
It's almost end of June.
Well, 2021. I am Brian Okken.
>> I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> I am Nick Moore.
Welcome, Nick. Thanks for joining the show.
Thank you.
Before we jump in, tell me a little bit about yourself.
Yeah, sure. So as I said, Nick Moua, I'm based out of Ohio,
and I work as a data engineer at Trimble Transportation.
It's a software company aiming to revolutionize the way we supply the world
and simplify and connect the world supply chain.
It wants to make it easier to move goods and freight all around the world.
I'm also the co-organizer of the of Kleepyte,
which is Cleveland's Python meetup group.
Thank you, Michael, for sharing that on the screen.
So yeah, that's a bit about me.
- Nice.
I enjoyed Cleveland when we were there for PyCon.
- Yeah, I think I met you guys there.
- Cool.
- Yeah, I think it was the JetBrains.
- That's right, we were.
It was really great to be in Cleveland for a couple of years
and I guess we just completely missed Pittsburgh,
but they're gonna get another round out of here.
as a redo, which is cool from COVID.
I got a chance to speak at the Cleveland Python meetup
and I talked about, talked about memory.
Was that right?
- Yeah, you're talking about how Python
managed his memory was like a really cool deep dive into.
- Yeah, thanks.
That was super fun for having me.
Now it's good to have you on our show.
- Yeah.
- So was that on purpose?
Did you make a joke that you couldn't remember
what the talk was about?
- No, I, (laughs)
I know how my brain might store the memory
of what I spoke about, but I just,
it could have been that or async
and I wasn't a hundred percent sure which one it was.
(laughing)
- We did talk about async too though, so.
- Cool.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Speaking of async, Brian.
- Yeah.
- Async databases, tell us about it.
- Well, this is object relational mappers also.
So we have ORMR, which is an async mini ORM for Python,
which supports Postgres, MySQL, and SQLite.
This was a suggestion sent to us by John Hagan.
Thanks, John, for sending this in.
I actually haven't played with this a lot.
I was looking around, it looks pretty neat.
But I'm going to quote John here.
He says, "It's a really cool ORM that combines
Pydantic models and SQL models into a single definition.
What is great about this is it can be used to reduce
the repetitive duplication between the models for an ORM
and the Pydantic models for that FastAPI needs
to describe serialization.
So I guess you do have to specify that twice normally.
- Yeah, normally what you do is you would have
the data model, the classes that do the exchange
on the API level.
So those are probably Pydantic,
but maybe then you have something like a SQLAlchemy model.
And then somewhere in the middle,
you've got to copy the SQLAlchemy data over to the
Pydantic model, send out over FastAPI,
and you get it back, then you've got to copy that
from FastAPI and Pydantic back into SQLAlchemy.
And because SQLAlchemy types are not really meant
to be transferred on the wire,
you don't get the open API documentation
that you get from Pydantic integration
and all those sorts of things.
So that's normally what happens.
But if your database model can also be a Pydantic model,
then you don't do that back and forth.
>> Yeah, and anytime you've got duplication,
it's like that dry issue of just,
you're going to mess it up sometime,
but it's going to be wrong.
>> I think that's why SQLAlchemy,
I think in version 1.4,
they've been playing around with a lot of ideas on how to
integrate data, not pedantic,
but data classes and the ORM style base models.
Four different propositions of how that should be done,
but it's not yet perfect.
I think that's something that looks
like they could learn from Omar here.
>> Or at least it's good to have these experiments going
on for everybody to look around and see how do
we move forward so that we can do this cleanly.
>> Yeah. The one thing I will say is that with all of these ORMs,
I don't know why they never give some love to SQL Server.
I always see Postgres, MySQL, SQLite,
but SQL Server is pretty cool too.
Where is the support for that?
- What's SQL server?
- So that's like Microsoft's, you know what?
(laughing)
- I think it really matters what audience
you're addressing, Nick, right?
So if you're talking startups
and a lot of the open source crowd,
yeah, it's all Postgres,
or if you're talking to Michael, it's all MongoDB, right?
But if you're talking to enterprises,
boy oh boy do a big bunch of those enterprises run on the Microsoft stack.
Yeah. Windows, Windows servers, Microsoft SQL server, and that's a non-trivial amount of
the use cases for these things. So I agree that it should get some attention, even if it's not
necessarily the one that the maintainers or many people are like most keen to use.
Yeah, and I agree it was a joke, but one of the things I wanted to point out that John mentioned
is that one of the benefits of ORMR is there's a quick start specifically for FastAPI. So you can
look at the documentation and there's a FastAPI quick start on how to get this running with FastAPI.
What an interesting combination of descriptors from the ORM class side and
Pydantic models you get here. So for this we have
like the Pydantic model base type of thing. We've got the
columns specified with type information that Pydantic would use, but then you set them to things like
an integer column that's a primary key or a string that has a max length setting and things like that.
Yeah, it's like the worst of every world, but
But it's better than repeating stuff, right? So yeah
Interesting. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's pretty good and nick you mentioned sequel alchemy and data classes
Pydantic also has some integration for working with data classes as well
So maybe there's a way to bridge those things across for like fast api and similar situations as well
I haven't tried that but it's it's possible
Yeah, let's see out there in the live stream. We got sam orly. Hey sam says this looks a lot like a django orm
Yeah, absolutely.
It really does.
And then Dean is hoping that we'll get some support
for a very important database, AccessDB.
That and, oh gosh, what was it?
DB2 and a couple of the others.
Yeah, there's some really important ones
that we might be forgetting,
but I think it's gonna be okay.
- Oh man, Access, that gives me PTSD from college.
(laughing)
- I can imagine.
I can imagine.
All right, well, speaking to people
who might be getting some trauma,
Let's talk about nomodulenamed.
nomodulenamed.com, in fact, it's now its own website.
You used to think of it as like an error,
and now it's actually a service.
So error explanations of a service, I guess,
is what you would call it.
All right, so Gared Dune pointed out
that there's this website called nomodulenamed,
and it looks super plain,
and I went to like, "What is this?"
It has 3,626 packages.
And oh my goodness, like 2 million modules or something like that.
And it has 151,000 package install guidelines.
So for example, what if I'm working with HTTPX?
And I get the message that says,
Python error, no module named HTTPX.
This is what would happen if you wrote import HTTPX and you went and tried to run it,
but you were new,
and you didn't realize there were external dependencies
or that HTTPX wasn't built into the standard library,
you would get that error, right?
- Yeah.
- So this tells you how to fix it.
It says, "Oh, this is probably
"'cause you don't have the package HTTPX."
Let's see if I can go something like FastAPI.responses.
Is that a thing?
And what will it tell me if I try it?
Oh, no such model.
Yeah, but so NumPy, for example,
it'll give you a lot of these and it'll tell you,
This is probably because you don't have the package NumPy
or NumPy MIPS 64 installed.
So that's what I was looking for,
is if it would sort of show like,
well, the package name is not exactly
what you're looking for.
So maybe BS4, right?
Sometimes there's these modules that, yeah.
So for example, if I say BS4,
it'll say, oh, it's because you don't have,
if you have the error, no module name BS4,
it's because you don't have beautiful soup four installed.
Right, so it's more than just like,
to pip install the thing that there's no module of.
It tries to help a little bit more with understanding that.
And it tells you how to get the latest version.
It tells you how to install it.
So yeah.
And there's even a related article.
- Extremely beautiful, like SEO on that
with people just Googling error messages as well.
- Yeah.
Yeah, so pretty, pretty interesting.
Garrett Dunn, thank you so much for sending that in.
It's simple, but you know,
These kinds of things can help people who are new
and are getting in.
And I think one of the powers of Python
is we have people coming from all these different
backgrounds and experiences
and they are not all computer science people
that know about package managers and like love that.
They're just like, oh, I know that I can do cool.
I can like load this file and make a picture out of it
that I need to work on,
but I get this stupid no module name this,
what is this?
And then they can, these kinds of things can help.
- I'm starting to teach my 11 year old some programming
and we started with packaging.
- Yeah.
- We didn't.
(laughing)
- No, you started with virtual environments
and then packaging.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- But Brian, I thought you would have started
with testing first.
- I always test first, yeah.
(laughing)
- I think this is like a really cool project.
I find it super useful when working on projects
related to GUIs like Qt or Phoenix, no, no, WX Python,
'cause like those packages come with so many
underlying dependencies and sometimes you might miss one
or might miss something that like is an OS dependency
that you don't know.
I feel like this could help you out.
I know I've run through this a few times
where like I'm using like a package
that is built on top of Qt,
but then it tells me you don't have PyQt-Gt.
- Right, exactly. - Well done.
- Well, I like that,
I think you probably already mentioned this,
but the error message is the module not found.
That's often not the same,
it's not the same name as the thing you install.
So.
- Yeah, like one that drives me crazy is dateUtil.
I love dateUtil.
I think it's like magic for the pain of parsing dates,
but that's not what you install.
You install Python underscore dateUtil, right?
So there's just, it's those situations where you're like,
why is there no date util?
I had pip and saw date util,
and then it's not even the right thing.
Or, you know, it's just, yeah,
I think it's helpful to sort of put those things together
for people who are new.
- Yeah, and for people doing new packages,
don't do this if you can.
Even if you have the perfect name for your package,
maybe come up with something else that you can actually,
it's available on PyPI.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
All right, Nick, you got the next one, right?
- Yep, I got the next one.
So I was looking through Jupyter.
So as I said, as a data engineer,
I often use Jupyter for like data wrangling
and just trying out how to like clean up some kind of data
before I actually do the actual cleaning
in our data pipeline.
As I stumble, I got a new iPad.
I went to tinkering around with Python code
and I was researching into how to do that.
I stumbled across JupyterLite.
I was like, "Okay, cool, JupyterLite."
But sometimes I'm not going to use code,
it's always going to be connected to Internet using my iPad.
Then I looked deeper into it and it's
a Jupyter distribution that runs entirely in the browser,
and it's built from the ground up
using JupyterLab components and extensions.
- That's cool.
- And the kernels that are available are like
in the browser.
So like there's a Python kernel that is like
in the browser and it's built using PyIoDyed.
That was like really cool to see.
And there's also like a, I think there is a,
where is it?
In the user guide,
there are other kernels such as,
yeah, JavaScript and P5.js,
which I think is like a graphics library
to build like things on Canvas.
But it was really cool to see like it's supports Python 3.8
and you get like start session,
you can run Python code,
Python completion, which is really cool.
It's interesting they call the kernel Pyolite.
- Pyolite based on Pyiodide.
- Yeah, based on Pyiodide.
And this is, I pulled it on, this is how it looks like
and it looks pretty cool.
So it also supports, right, I think,
rough or not, it supports Altair and,
hold on, wait again.
- I think Matplotlib as well, I think, yeah.
- Matplotlib, Matplotlib.
And so, like, open up this Altair notebook.
It even has something called MicroPip,
which is like, I don't know what this means,
but I think it means that it's like,
is a package manager, but for the browser, for Python,
which is interesting.
- And it's asynchronous,
because it's JavaScript basically, right?
So it's a wait, micro pip installed,
like Jinja2 or Altair or something like that.
How interesting.
- That's very cool.
I think it also, everything that you download
and everything that, all the data that you like load up,
it's being stored in the browsers like local storage
or some other, I don't know, index DB.
So it's like self-contained.
The only thing I noticed is that right now, it's not,
it's not, what was the word here?
PWA?
So it's not like-- - Yes, I was just thinking
it would be fantastic if that was a progressive web app
and then you could just have it
in mostly offline mode, yeah.
Edge does a great job with PWAs
and every time you detect like a manifest of JSON
it will show you, do you wanna install this app?
And I would just love to have like this click install
and then have JupyterLite wherever I go
or load it up on my iPad and then disconnect
and still be tinkering around with what I want.
So this is all browser-based.
So that's really cool.
I'm not gonna run any of these
but I encourage everybody to check this out.
It's pretty cool.
- Yeah, yeah, this is really cool.
I do the same thing with, I use Brave.
So I have like a YouTube app installed on my Mac
and I've got a Twitter app installed
at all as progressive web apps so that you can just
launch them.
I do wish Firefox supported that.
Firefox people, if you're listening,
bring back the progressive web app.
We all need this.
- Yep.
- Yeah, that's cool.
What are some of the other notebooks in there
that look cool?
Are these like demo ones or did you--
- Yeah, this is a demo one.
So there are, this is a P5 JS one.
There's the Altair one.
I don't know what Folium is.
There's interactive widgets, which is cool.
So it still uses Jupyter's IPython notebook widgets.
Math.lib.
- Oh, Plotly as well.
- And Plotly, cool.
And so this is the de facto like PyOlight one.
So it supports Matlab, Pandas, that's cool.
- It supports LaTeX as well.
- Yeah, it's really cool.
- And so like, as I was saying before,
PyOdyte is, what is it?
Is like an implementation of Python on the browser.
Actually the implementation of Python
is on the computing stack on the browser.
So I think things like Pandas, NuPy, SciPy, scikit-learn
already like available, it's within the PyOdyte ecosystem.
So you don't have to-
- Yeah, I had the guys behind it,
Firefox and Mozilla was behind it originally at least.
And I had them on talk Python.
I believe it's WebAssembly based.
I think what they did is they took all these major
visualization libraries and things like pandas and NumPy
and compiled them all into a Python plus
those WebAssembly thing that runs in the browser
instead of a JavaScript version, which is pretty awesome.
- Oh, yeah, it's so easy.
- Yeah, the symbolic output, like the,
got the math symbol integral of the square root
One over XDX, beautiful.
I wonder if you get hand calcs on it.
- Oh, yeah.
- Awesome.
Cool, all right, well, that's a really good one.
I love it.
All the data scientists out there
can definitely enjoy that.
- Yeah, cool.
Where do we go next?
- I think you're up next.
- Oh, right, okay.
- So next we've got-- - More plotting maybe?
- Yeah, more plotting.
So this is a long title.
Basically it's lots of plots.
There's eight popular graphs made
with pandas, matplotlib, seaborn, and plotly-express.
And I, one of these, I've seen a lot of articles
and stuff talking about how to do different plots
in one or more of these.
And a lot of them are, a lot of the articles,
and rightly so, are focused on something cool you can do with one library that you can't do with others.
And like I've seen Seaborn ones like that, and that's great.
What I like about this article is it's like, well, let's just take these different pandas
plotting and matplotlib, seaborn, and plotly express, and do the same plot.
Let's do something they can all do.
And so that's what this article does.
It does a whole list.
You got normal line charts,
grouped bar charts, stacked bars,
pies, a whole bunch of things, and histograms.
Then you can just compare to
see what it looks like before you try.
For one, it's got the output,
what do the graphs look like, which is important.
But also, it's a fairly simple article,
it's talking about what the plots look like,
but also how do you make them?
It's in a Jupyter Notebook viewer,
and it shows you what's the code look like to get these plots set up.
I think that's a big part of choosing your plotting library is looking at
the API to see what kind of API looks comfortable to you.
>> Yeah. I've got to write this code.
Will I be able to remember this?
>> Yeah.
>> Or will it be like regular expressions and I learn it every time I use it?
>> Yeah. Or if you get stuck with one and you want to switch to
to sort of look at what the deltas are.
I like these side-by-side,
apples to apples comparison sort of articles.
So I think this is good for choosing
the simple parts of plotting.
But some of the comparisons are sort of funny
'cause like the bar charts,
it just kind of all look the same.
But. (laughs)
- Oh, that one's orange versus orange and blue
versus green and blue, it's not all the same.
- Yeah, but you get down into some of the fancy ones
and they, yeah, they do look great.
some of the area charts.
Yeah, that one looks great.
What's that?
Poly express area charts look awesome.
- Yeah, the area charts look good.
- And what's, I didn't know what a donut chart was.
A donut chart was a pie chart with a hole in it.
- Yep.
- Why do people use that?
- I think it's because of like with the pie charts,
the sectors are kind of,
it's kind of 'cause sometimes it can be hard to see
like how much width,
no, like the circumference of like this sector.
So maybe the donut chart,
it kind of makes it easier to see like, okay,
this takes like all of this.
It's just a visual thing to be honest.
- Okay, good.
- Nick, this is your world.
What do you think?
- I think this is really cool,
but to be honest,
all of these APIs don't compare
to the grammar of graphics from R.
And so I usually,
- If I am going to do graphics in Python,
I would prefer to use something that like conforms
to the grammar of graphics,
because to me that's kind of,
you know how like Python has the import this
and it's all philosophy how you write Python.
The grammar of graphics like has that.
So it has like, gives you these like sentences,
so to speak to build graphics.
And I like, that makes so much sense in my head.
So like for a GraphQL reads,
it's either Altair or ggplot.
And there is like a Python port of ggplot
that's pretty good.
But I think Altair is like the Pythonic de facto version
that I've used, that's really nice.
All the other ones that make me have to do like,
do these method calls on objects,
just I can't remember it.
I'll have to come back to something like this.
So how do you use it in Matlab, or are you using Seaborn?
I really like the fact that Seaborn has a lot of one-liners
to do simple charts in one line, which is great.
Unlike with the grammar graphics,
still makes you have to build everything out.
But if I'm building something really custom,
or I am just building something
that I want to have complete control over,
the grammar graphics just gives me a better way
of remembering what to do
compared to having to remember all this API,
all this method API calls.
- Well, I mean, the author, Dylan Castillo,
says, "Let me know what you think."
So maybe we can give him some feedback
to add Altair and a couple others.
- Oh yeah, that'd be cool.
- Okay, Dean also has some thoughts out there, Ryan.
- Oh, Seaborn and Pandas use Matplotlib in the backend,
so you can do everything they can do with Matplotlib.
Okay, maybe harder, but not impossible.
And also, that's probably why they look all the same.
(both laughing)
- They are the same.
It's turtles all the way down.
And he also says, "Remember kids,
almost every command in Matplotlib
returns the object it charts."
That's the start of OOP, object-oriented plotting.
All right, Rhino.
- Oop, it'd be two Ps.
Oop, boop, oop.
(both laughing)
All right, well, Brian, you gotta talk about databases,
so I'm gonna talk about databases too.
But my databases are gonna be smaller
and in-memory and embedded, but also about MongoDB.
So there's this really cool one created by David Latwe
called MontyDB.
So it's a Monty, it's a MongoDB tiny-ified,
so it's MongoDB implemented in Python,
and you can have it in process,
kind of like SQLite, I believe.
We've covered a couple of these libraries
that are starting to show up
that let you do sort of embedded MongoDB,
which I think is really neat.
So it's inspired by TinyDB
and its extension, TinyMongo.
So the way you work with it, it's super simple.
You just import the Monty client.
If you wanted to go crazy,
you could say as Mongo client
and make it basically the same.
And then you can give it connection strings
like colon memory colon,
that should look familiar from something like SQLite.
And then you can insert data to it,
do all sorts of things and do queries against it,
run like the MongoDB query syntax against it.
And you get the responses back,
which I think is pretty cool.
It's certainly interesting for testing.
If you told it to use a file storage,
it could be an interesting little embedded database
and things like that.
So pretty cool.
It supports many of the MongoDB versions up to 4.2 and 4.4
on the way with wave emoji.
I'm not really sure about that, but also--
- Sweat.
- What's that?
- I think it's sweat.
- Oh, gotcha.
Like the work is being done, gotcha.
So you can pip install MontyDB
and it will work in sort of its way.
If you want to use the actual serialization library
from MongoDB itself, you can say install Monty DB
bracket bson to install that as well.
It also has a lightning memory map DB, LMDB library.
You can use that as the storage engine as well.
So you can pip install, you know, add that on as well.
So for the storage, you've got in memory,
you've got a flat file.
It'll actually use SQL lite as a back end store,
which is pretty cool.
And then that LMDB lightning memory mapped DB.
So, this looks pretty neat to me.
If you're gonna do some kind of embedded thing
or you're gonna do some testing
and you want something lightweight,
that's not a separate server,
you've got to set up and run and all those kinds of things.
This is cool.
- I think it's awesome.
- Could you make this a pytest fixture, Brian,
that just gives you like presets,
sets up your database and gives you access
to the connection or something?
- Yeah, I mean, actually, I don't,
I'm not really a fan of people switching their databases
too much for testing because most modern databases
have in-memory options or smaller version options.
But I mean, we use SQLite for tons of stuff.
That's not just for testing.
And if you've got SQLite at the backend,
there's no reason why this couldn't be a production thing.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- No, this is really cool.
This could be really useful for like CLI apps
that need to store.
- Yes, exactly.
You wanna have a little thing, but you don't wanna say,
"Oh, you want to run my little utility?
I packaged it up with Py2 app or Py2 exe or something."
You're going to need to install MongoDB
and become an admin of that.
Like, no, you just use like a SQLite file
as the back end store or the LMDB version.
Another thing that's common from the MongoDB world
is there's a set of CLI tools that allows you to manage it.
So I can connect to it.
I can import a bunch of exported files
from some other backed up files from some other MongoDB instance
and import that into my current server or whatever,
or create those exports, right?
So there's actually a bunch of utilities called MontyImport,
MontyExport, MontyRestore, MontyDump.
All of these are the parallels of MongoDump, MongoRestore, and so on.
All right, so if you're used to working with MongoDB,
it's not just explicitly that there's some API to talk to some file.
There's also the tools that are there as well.
Yeah.
I think it could be a cool project.
I said, "Why did I make this?" Mostly for just fun and practicing on it,
but also I needed to run in this limited little environments
for render farms in the film industry.
So that's pretty cool.
[LAUGHS]
It's a side project also with render farms.
- It's a side project for my super computer, yes.
(laughing)
- I love the name by the way, Monty Python.
- Yeah, I mean, yeah, it really brings the MongoDB wordplay
in with Monty Python, Python origin, yeah, pretty cool.
All right, Nick, you got the last one?
- Awesome.
So, exhaustiveness checking with mypy.
So essentially what exhaustiveness checking is,
is a feature of a lot of type checkers
where they guarantee that the programmer
has covered all their cases.
And so with mypy, you could essentially check things
like whether you've covered all the,
you have written all the if statements
you're supposed to write at compile time
rather than figuring that out at run time.
And I really got into using mypy
and trying to like have it save my butt a lot
the way I think about code by embracing types.
So I stumbled across this, which was like really interesting
where this article written by Haki Benita
went into how like auxiliary networking actually works.
So they start out with enum that has order status
and you have a function that is called handleOrder
that takes a status, which should be an instance
of order status.
And so in his function, he has it like,
if status is order ready, you do something.
If status is order shipped, you do something.
But then he added this new scenario
where what if you wanted to check the status
of something scheduled.
And so he tried to run my PI right now
and I didn't complain about it.
So like, okay, cool.
- Yeah, 'cause one of the things that's very common
is if you have something like a set of cases,
in this case, it's put together in an enumeration,
you have more cases over time,
but all these if else if else if else if statements
all over your code,
have you exhaustively gone through
and added that case check for all of them?
Probably not, unless you've got a good test,
- A really good test, yeah.
- Okay, and so he proposed like one quick way of checking
that you've handled all cases is by adding this assert false
comma on handle status,
and you pass in the status like using f-strings.
And so then when you try to pass a state
that you have not actually handled before,
you actually get assertion error, right?
which is all right, but if you use mypy,
there's this clever trick where you create a function
called assertNever that takes a value called noReturn
and returns noReturn, and in it,
it has the assertFalse unhandled value.
And so then when you use that function
in your handleOrder function,
you, at the end case, you have this else assertNever,
and you're passing the status.
Now when you check with mypy, mypy will know,
hey, argument one to assert has incompatible type,
literal, or their status schedule, expected, no return.
- How interesting.
- Yeah, and this is a compile time,
and you can actually get this.
- Yeah, yeah, I think that's the important thing,
'cause I was looking at that going,
oh, I could just add the else statement
and put the assert there and have nothing to do with mypy,
and it would catch that error.
But that catches that error when that code runs.
Like I said before, hopefully there's tests,
but oftentimes there's not tests for everything.
- Yeah.
- And so especially there might not be a test
for the new thing you've added.
And so this is cool in that it checks
all the possible types that could go in there.
That's cool.
- Yeah, and the part that really got me
was that it integrates with your IDE.
So PyCharm, VS Code, or any editor
that implements a language server
can then like look at this and say,
"Hey, you haven't handled all your cases."
Right, and you get that immediate feedback
rather than having to run your code
and then find out, "Oh, dang it, I missed this case."
- Yeah, so people who are not looking
at the live stream, YouTube stream,
which is almost all the people listening,
Nick is showing on the screen this assert function
that's checking the numeration.
And there's just a red squiggly line that literally says,
a cert never has incompatible order status at scheduled,
that's the missed enumeration case.
I think that's incredible that actually finds this.
- Yeah, and it works because mypy uses this technique
called type narrowing.
And essentially what that means is that it would,
given a variable as it goes through like a control flow,
like if statements, switch statements, while loop,
Mypy will like kind of confine,
or in other words, narrow down the types
as it goes through those control flow programs.
And so it works with enumeration types, unions, literals.
So you have in the article,
there are examples of how you could pass in a union
of different types, strings, float,
and you could still use this technique
and it'll tell you, hey, you've missed a case,
or you could do this with literals.
So you have like RGB and then you only implemented the,
you only check for like two cases, which are R and G,
and they need to tell you,
hey, you did not handle the B case.
So yeah, and so like the article goes further
into different ways in which you could set this up,
have my point, check all of the different places for you,
which is really cool.
- I like the various sweets for cards,
like clubs, diamonds, hearts.
- I know, it's interesting that,
to Mai Pai, when it sees an enum
that has like clubs, diamonds, hearts, and spades,
all it sees is like a union of literals,
which are sweets, cards, sweet clubs, sweet hearts,
which is actually interesting.
That's how Mai Pai sees it.
- Yeah, that's very interesting.
I mean, basically it's emojis.
- Yeah, it's basically emojis, right.
The one other thing I wanted to mention here is that,
that was a specific, oh yeah.
This feature is actually something that Guido
actually thought was pretty cool.
And so I think it's part of PEP 622,
structural pattern matching already.
So if you are matching against an enum,
or something that has multiple different states,
the matching, hopefully Python 3.10
will give you a nice error saying,
hey, you missed a particular case.
And this could really, and if you're a Django developer
or you just use Django or even, yeah,
you use any ORM and the ORM provides something like choices
where like yes, no, or dollar, euro,
like these kinds of choices in the field,
this works pretty well.
And so in your Django code,
you could actually have mypy telling you,
hey, you missed handling a particular case.
- Crazy.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
- Yeah, this is really cool.
- Yeah, Sam out in the live stream
was sort of onto the same thoughts
you were talking about with Guido there.
Wonder if one could hack on the match mechanism
to deliver this functionality at runtime,
using by somehow getting all the variants
of the enum and checking the branches of the AST or something.
Yeah.
>> That's actually interesting because I know that part of the structural pattern matching,
like any object can implement the magic method match,
and maybe that's your entry point into providing that kind of checking at runtime.
Of course, with Python,
anything that is around runtime checking,
there's performance costs with that.
So be careful.
- Yeah, but having this built into my pipe already
would be good.
- And Juergen is talking about on the live stream,
he says, I wonder whether you could rewrite the code
to not use if statements at all,
but be more polymorphic, which I agree.
That's a really interesting idea
with the method overloading and stuff.
And it reminds me back a couple of weeks ago,
Brian talked about function overloading
with single dispatch and multiple dispatch.
And yeah, you could kind of more or less
make that happen there.
So yeah, pretty neat.
Although you still may miss a case.
I'm not entirely sure.
At least in the enumeration bit, that won't help you, right?
'Cause the enum will still be the same type.
It'll just, you'll still have more values.
- Yep.
- Awesome.
Good one, Nick.
Brian, what else we got?
- Well, I've got a couple of things.
One of the things I wanted to note was that
this is the second week in a row we've featured an article
by Hockey and the third in this year.
So we should probably try to get him on the show
or something.
- Yeah, sounds good.
- He's doing some good writing, so thanks.
The other thing I wanted to mention is
I've got, oh yeah, by the way, my book is out.
- Yay, this is a good book too.
- Yeah, second edition of Pytest is available for beta.
So people can tell me everything that's,
I already got it, somebody said they have got an issue.
It's a minor issue with it already, so thanks.
But it's just been me and my editor so far
working through it.
So having more people, more eyes
before we go to shipping the physical book,
it would be great.
So of course this is through Pragmatic,
but if you go to pytestbook.com, it'll take you there.
So that was my extra.
- Right on.
Cool, I've got a couple as well.
Yeah, I got some neat ones here.
So how often do you maybe have like a blueprint, floor plan?
Maybe you're looking at a house
and you're trying to decide whether you wanna buy it.
What would it be like to actually live in there?
Maybe you're trying to figure out,
well, I'm planning out this apartment
or I have this place, I wanna remodel it
with like Ikea it all out or something along those lines.
I ran across this thing that uses some interesting models
called plan to scene.
So the idea is it'll take what is literally a floor plan,
like a blueprint floor plan that shows
like swinging doors in bits.
And then you tell it what kind of room it is.
It's like a bedroom or a bathroom or whatever.
And it will generate a 3D world that
has things like sinks and toilets and couches that
are three-dimensional, not just somehow projected in there.
So there's all of these interesting things.
You can see there's-- if you pull up the site,
there's all these spinning worlds.
And you can see that they've created
these little environments just from floor plans, which
I think is pretty insane.
So anyway, you can--
go ahead, Nick.
- No, that's really cool.
I think I wonder if like,
'cause like Tremble, we own like SketchUp.
I wonder if they do this kind of stuff.
They take floor plans and then they make it 3D.
That's really cool.
- Yeah, there's a whole bunch of comparisons
of how it used to be done,
how you can pick like different,
you know, different flooring and walls
and source codes available on GitHub.
People can run with that.
So that's pretty cool.
It's called plan to scene.
And then just a quick shout out to this TCAST podcast.
I happen to be a guest of recently
and we got to talk about Python and data science
and how Python and data are sort of changing the world
and stuff and it's really fun.
So people can check that out.
Yeah, and that's it for the things I got.
Nick, anything else you wanna throw out there?
- Yeah, just a shameless plug.
As I said earlier on the live stream,
I co-host the CLEPI, which is Cleveland's Area Python Meetup
Group.
And so we have meetups every second Monday of the month.
And one of the reasons why I would encourage anybody
across the world or US or everywhere
to still come and present is because oftentimes,
meetups are a great place to present talks
that you are planning on giving in maybe like
continental conferences or like other larger conferences,
smaller crowd and we show you guys a good time, right?
So it's a great place to come, give your talk,
get feedback from that and then take and improve on it.
So that's one.
And then the other,
streamless blog is that Pi Ohio
It has its own conference coming up on July 31st.
Registrations are open.
We have pretty cool t-shirts.
So yeah, register.
- And that's a, is that live or streaming?
- Yes, that is being streamed.
- Okay.
How about your meetups?
Are those being, are those streamed or live?
- Those are virtual.
We have them like in person.
And that's, I really, that's when like pandemic
mess things up because you have stuff like pizza over and just have a good time talking about
Python. But no, the virtual setting has given a lot more people access. We're able to have more
people on. So nice. Yeah, that's fantastic. And PyOhio is definitely one of those big regional
conferences that a lot of people pay attention to, even if they're not in Ohio. Are you going to go
- So are you gonna go back to in-person only?
Are you gonna do like a hybrid stream and in-person
or is it gonna be, what's your plans
for when the world returns to normal?
- That's if it ever returns to normal.
I think we'll change forever.
But to answer your question,
I think my co-organizer and I have been thinking about it.
We don't, we're not yet set yet.
Like we see the benefits of the virtual,
but we also see the benefits of the live.
And there are things that have changed so much.
you don't even know whether the live
in person is still available.
But no, just something we're thinking about.
- Yeah, cool.
Well, it's a challenge.
I think all the meetups and other events are having,
especially these smaller,
like monthly, bi-weekly sort of things.
You know, it's one thing to say
that there's gonna be a big conference
and we'll all either go to it or not.
But if you're doing it every couple of weeks
and it's mostly local, but not 100% local,
yeah, it's a challenge.
- Yeah.
Fantastic.
All right, Brian, you ready for a joke?
Definitely.
OK.
So I've got one, and then Nick has one.
So this one, the title of the joke is "Root Beer Float."
So a programmer walks into a bar.
He orders 1.000000119 root beers.
The bartender says, I'm going to have to charge you extra.
That's a root beer float.
The programmer says, "Well, in that case, make it a double."
It's bad, right?
- That's bad.
- Yeah.
- All right.
And Nick, you've got one as well.
You wanna do this one for us?
- Yeah, would someone like to-
- You want me to be the bearded person?
- Yeah, you already have something going on there.
So, all right.
So, will refactoring the code improve the loading time?
- Not really.
- Will it improve the security then?
- No.
So it's for browser compatibility.
- Yeah, no, not really, nope.
- So tell me, why is it always the same old story
with you guys wanting to refactor everything?
I need to know.
- Because as devs, if we know, excuse me,
if we know we've left behind some messy code,
we can't stop thinking about it.
We wake up in the morning, at lunchtime,
in the evening, when we go home,
and when we're trying to go to sleep,
it haunts us, you know, it haunts us.
(laughing)
- I love it.
- And it's true too.
- Totally true, it's totally true.
- All right, I have one more joke for you guys.
- Oh yeah, hit us.
- All right, how much does a chimney cost?
- Dunno.
- No idea.
- Nothing, it's on the house.
(laughing)
- Very good.
- I have a friend that is so into dad jokes,
which is weird because it's only 22.
- Practicing for the future.
- Yeah, that was practicing for the future.
- I think my dad can be blamed for all bad jokes.
Anyway.
Yeah, I wanna highlight,
Jurgen says that they cost 2,500 euros.
- That's expensive.
- Well, thanks a lot for joining us today.
This was a lot of fun.
And thanks everybody in the stream for showing up
and we'll talk to everybody next week.
- Thanks, bye everyone.
- Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]